So far we focused on static images, but
matplotlib does have some support for
both animation and interactivity.
We call this the backend that
renders the plot to the stream.
Animation and interactivity heavily depend
on support from this backend layer.
And using a backend like the image
png1 doesn't provide this.
However, the NBN backend or the matplotlib
notebook magic function does provide for
some interactivity, so
we can leverage that here.
The Maplotlib.animation module contains
important helpers for building animations.
For our discussion, the important
object here is to call FuncAnimation.
And it builds an animation by iteratively
calling a function which you define.
Essentially, your function will
either clear the axis object and
redraw the next frame,
which you want users to see or
will return a list of objects
which need to be redrawn.
Let's see an example.
First, let's import the animation module.
Next, let's define a cut-off for
our animation.
I'd like to show you how the histogram is
built from one sample through 100 samples.
So let's set our cut off to 100
then randomly pick 100 numbers and
put them into a variable.
Okay, next we want to actually create
a function which will do the plotting.
We'll call this function update.
Now the matplotlib FuncAnimation object is
going to call this every few milliseconds
and pass in the frame number we
are on starting with frame zero.
So we can use this is as the index into
our array values, which we called x.
The very first thing we want to
do is see if the current frame
is at the end of our list.
If so,
we need to tell the animation to stop.
We do this by calling the stop object
on the event source object attached
to the FuncAnimation object.
We're going to call our animation a.
So, I'll just use that here.
I didn't know we can just
drop plot as per normal.
So lets first clear
the current axis with cla,
then create a histogram using a set of
value in the x up to the current value.
Slicing is great for this.
Now we also need to consider the bins.
Previously we just passed a single
number in for the bins eg 10 or 100.
But we can also pass in
the spacing in between bins.
Since we want all of our bins set and
evenly spaced, because we're redrawing
the animation in each clock tick,
we can use the NumPy arange function.
This will ensure that
the bins don't change.
We use the balance of minus 4 to plus 4,
in half-step increments.
We also need to set the axis
values since otherwise,
the histogram will continually autoscale
between frames which could be annoying.
So I'll just hard code some values here,
often the bin sizes and use 30 as an x and
a couple of labels and titles to
make the chart look a little better.
Finally, let me show you another
text function called annotate.
This places text at a certain
position in the chart and
we'll use it to show how many samples are
currently being rendered to the screen.
Now let's just generate a new figure, then
call the FuncAnimation constructor and
we'll assign this to variable a.
The first parameter is the figure
that we're working with.
This isn't so important here,
since we're using the pipe plot scripting
interface to manage the figure.
Then the name of our function and then the
amount of time we want between updates.
Let's set this to 100 milliseconds.
Also, remember that we have
to set this to variable a.
Otherwise, our function isn't going
to know how to stop the animation.
There we go.
A nice example of how sampling from a
distribution an be used with an animation.
FuncAnimation like most of the other
classes in the animation package is
a subclass of the animation object.
The animation object has
a handy safe function,
which allows you to write
the animation to a file.
This requires additional
third party library such as
FFM page which can take
a bit to install and set up.
But the result is that you can fairly
easily export your animations directly
from the Jupiter Web
programming environment.
A figure animation with four sub-plots,
one for each kind of distribution we might
be interested in understanding,
could be pretty neat.
We could plot the samples for the normal
distribution in one, for a gamma
distribution in another, and then maybe
a couple of paramaterized distributions
like the normal distribution with
different levels of standard deviation.
This would be a great way to practice the
skills that you've learned in this module,
as it would require that you manage
multiple sub-plots within an animation
using histograms.
In the next lecture, we'll dig into
this event framework a bit more and
look at the interactivity.